#summary A Fig with a coordinate axis
#labels Reference,Version1

_(This page applies only to the 1.x branch of SVGFig.)_

= class Plot =

Acts like [ClassFig Fig], but draws a coordinate axis.  You also need to supply plot ranges.

== Arguments ==

*Plot(xmin, xmax, ymin, ymax, obj, obj, obj..., keyword options...)*

|| xmin, xmax || _*required*_ || minimum and maximum x values (in the objs' coordinates) ||
|| ymin, ymax || _*required*_ || minimum and maximum y values (in the objs' coordinates) ||
|| obj || _optional list_ || drawing primatives ||
|| keyword options || _keyword list_ || options defined below ||

The drawing primatives must implement the *SVG* method, as described
in the [ClassFig Fig] documentation.

Unlike [ClassFig Fig], Plot has an implicit coordinate transformation:
from (xmin, xmax), (ymin, ymax) to its bounding box.  This coordinate
transformation (a [DefWindow window] transformation) flips the
direction of the y axis (SVG coordinates have y increasing downward,
local Plot coordinates have y increasing upward).

Any additional coordinate transformation, given through the "trans"
keyword option (or given as an argument to the *SVG* method) is
composed with Plot's implicit window transformation.

The following are keyword options, with their default values:

|| trans || None || transformation function ||
|| x, y || 5, 5 || upper-left corner of the Plot in SVG coordinates ||
|| width, height || 90, 90 || width and height of the Plot in SVG coordinates ||
|| flipx, flipy || False, True || flip the sign of the coordinate axis ||
|| minusInfinity || -1000 || if an axis is logarithmic and an object is plotted at 0 or a negative value, -1000 will be used as a stand-in for NaN ||
|| atx, aty || 0, 0 || the place where the coordinate axes cross ||
|| xticks || -10 || request ticks according to the [TickSpecification standard tick specification] ||
|| xminiticks || True || request miniticks according to the [TickSpecification standard minitick specification] ||
|| xlabels || True || request tick labels according to the [TickSpecification standard tick label specification] ||
|| xlogbase || None || if a number, the axis and transformation are logarithmic with ticks at the given base (10 being the most common) ||
|| same for y || || ||
|| arrows || None || if a new identifier, create arrow markers and draw them at the ends of the coordinate axes ||
|| text_attr || {} || a dictionary of attributes for label text ||
|| axis_attr || {} || a dictionary of attributes for the axis lines ||

== Member data ==

These data may be changed at any time.  You do not need to make a list
of all graphics before creating a Plot; you can create an empty Plot and
append items to its `d` member.

|| d || list of plottable objects ||
|| all keyword options || same meaning as above ||

== SVG method ==

Just like [ClassFig Fig], Plot has an *SVG* method to convert its objects into [ClassSVG SVG].

All graphics primatives must supply a *SVG* method with the same arguments.
