#summary Draw error bars at a set of points
#labels Reference

= class YErrorBars =

YErrorBars draws y error bars at a set of points.  This is usually used
before (under) a set of [ClassDots Dots] at the same points.

== Arguments ==

*YErrorBars(d, attribute=value)*

|| d || _*required*_ || list of (x,y,yerr...) points ||
|| attribute=value pairs || _keyword list_ || SVG attributes ||

If points in `d` have
  * 3 elements, the third is the symmetric error bar
  * 4 elements, the third and fourth are the asymmetric lower and upper error bar.  The third element should be negative, e.g. (5, 5, -1, 2) is a bar from 4 to 7.
  * more than 4, a tick mark is placed at each value.  This lets you nest errors from different sources, correlated and uncorrelated, statistical and systematic, etc.

Note lists like (x,y,yerr) can be constructed with Python's
`zip` function.
{{{
>>> x = [1,2,3,4,5]
>>> y = [1,4,9,16,25]
>>> yerr = [0.1, 0.2, 0.3, 0.4, 0.5]
>>> zip(x,y)
[(1, 1, 0.1), (2, 4, 0.2), (3, 9, 0.3), (4, 16, 0.4), (5, 25, 0.5)]
}}}

= class XErrorBars =

XErrorBars draws x error bars at a set of points.  This is usually
used before (under) a set of [ClassDots Dots] and maybe YErrorBars at
the same points.

In all respects, XErrorBars acts like YErrorBars.

== SVG method ==

XErrorBars and YErrorBars have *SVG* members, as described in [GeneralPrimative General features for all primatives].

== Defaults ==

XErrorBars and YErrorBars have the following defaults, as described in [GeneralPrimative General features for all primatives].

|| defaults || {"stroke-width":"0.25pt"} ||
