#summary Create SVG paths with transformable coordinates
#labels Reference

= class Path =

Path represents an SVG path, an arbitrary set of curves and straight
segments.  Unlike `SVG("path", d="...")`, Path stores coordinates as a
list of numbers, rather than a string, so that it is transformable in
a [ClassFig Fig].

== Arguments ==

*Path(d, attribute=value)*

|| d || _required_ || path data ||
|| attribute=value pairs || _keyword list_ || SVG attributes ||

The path data may be a string/Unicode, like an SVG path, or a list of
tuples, each of which is a command.  The string format is defined in
the [http://www.w3.org/TR/SVG/paths.html SVG 1.1 specification], and
will be converted immediately into a list of tuples.

Tuple-commands are defined as follows:
  * ("Z/z",): close the current path
  * ("H/h", x) or ("V/v", y): a horizontal or vertical line segment to x or y
  * ("M/m/L/l/T/t", x, y, global): moveto, lineto, or smooth quadratic curveto point (x, y).  If global=True, (x, y) should not be transformed.
  * ("S/sQ/q", cx, cy, cglobal, x, y, global): polybezier or smooth quadratic curveto point (x, y) using (cx, cy) as a control point.  If cglobal or global=True, (cx, cy) or (x, y) should not be transformed.
  * ("C/c", c1x, c1y, c1global, c2x, c2y, c2global, x, y, global): cubic curveto point (x, y) using (c1x, c1y) and (c2x, c2y) as control points.  If c1global, c2global, or global=True, (c1x, c1y), (c2x, c2y), or (x, y) should not be transformed.
  * ("A/a", rx, ry, rglobal, x-axis-rotation, angle, large-arc-flag, sweep-flag, x, y, global): arcto point (x, y) using the aforementioned parameters.

In all cases, capital letters imply absolute motion to the given
points/control points and lower-case letters imply a step which is
relative to the previous (x, y) point (if it exists).

For all points, if the corresponding "global" variable is False, the
point will be transformed by the coordinate transform.  If "global" is
True, the point will not be transformed.

In addition to the legal SVG plot data, parsed Paths accept the following new command:
  * (",/.", rx, ry, rglobal, angle, x, y, global): an ellipse at point (x, y) with radii (rx, ry).  If _angle_ is 0, the whole ellipse is drawn; otherwise, a partial ellipse is drawn.

This makes it easier to create dots.  The period (".") version of this
command uses absolute positions and the comma (",") version is
relative.

== Considerations ==

Note that elliptical arcs and dots won't be properly transformed in
all coordinate transformations.  Only the control points are set to
the transformed coordinates.

== SVG method ==

Like all grpahics primitives, Paths can be converted into [ClassSVG SVG] with the *SVG* method.

*SVG(trans)*

|| trans || _default_=None || a coordinate transformation function (to override the default) ||
